Welcome and congratulations! We are excited to personally meet all of you upon your arrival to Notre Dame and St. Edward’s Hall in August. Not only have you made the intelligent decision to attend the best university in the world, but you also secured a coveted room in Notre Dame’s finest residence hall—St. Edward’s.

Your new home is one of the smaller residence halls on campus and consequently is a tightly knit community of brothers who share camaraderie and a proud tradition. While some of the larger halls are so populous that the residents may never know the guy living down the hallway, you will come to know each and every person in St. Ed’s. Truly, the bond among Stedsmen is a much tighter one than what you’d find in some of the behemoth around campus (we’re looking at you, Dillon Hall). Additionally, we have recently undergone renovations that have made our home into one of the nicest on campus. Being a part of St. Edward’s hall means being a part of a brotherhood, and you’ll have the opportunity to truly experience what that means when you arrive in August.

St. Edward’s Hall is comprised of singles, doubles, triples, and quads, as well as a few multiple room suites. While floor space may seem small (most doubles are 12’ by 16’), the ceiling height makes up for this. Our hall is actually the object of much campus jealousy for having the most spacious rooms. Everybody in the new halls has to waste most of their space on storage while we can just throw our stuff on a shelf 10 feet overhead. Ceilings are 9.5’ tall on the first floor, 13’ on the second floor, 12’ on the third floor, and 10.5’ on the fourth floor. In other words we get to be kind of like Japan: built up instead of out. When you arrive, you will be pleased to find a sink with a mirrored medicine cabinet as well (No little shampoo bottles or towels. This isn’t the Holiday Inn.). Also supplied for all students are a desk with a chair (you will want to bring your own small lamp), 3-drawer dresser, a lofted bed, and a closet (shared by roommates). Also, be sure to bring sheets and a pillow – you might be able to survive for the first few months on a bare mattress, but come winter-time you’ll freeze without a sheet or two.

Closet space often becomes cramped, so it is advisable to bring some sort of organizing device with drawers. If you don’t feel like lugging a dresser out from home, you can usually purchase one at the start of the school year from flea markets or Goodwill/Salvation Army stores. Please don’t bring your grandma’s antique cherrywood dresser because we wouldn’t want dad to give himself a hernia trying to carry it to your room. The best value is a set of stackable plastic drawers, which can be bought at any K-Mart/Target type store for around $10. Also very popular 9 among most guys are milk crates or more stylish Yaffa Blocks (also available at K-Mart type places).


Computers, Telephone Service, and Cable TV

Computers
Students are welcome to bring their own computers or laptops from home; however, not all students bring personal computers. Students have access to 16 computer clusters on campus with over 500 computers available for use. Most clusters are open from 8 a.m. until 2 a.m. while classes are in session.

Every residence hall room has an ethernet jack for residents to connect their computers into the University's network. All students are provided Shared File Space on the University's server. Shared File Space allows students to save information to the server and access computer files from across campus (in computer clusters, classrooms, and residence halls).

Telephone Service
Residents have the option of purchasing "Opt-in Phone Service" within the first four weeks of the semester. If you choose this option, you must provide your own phone, provided it is not a 2.4 GHz cordless phone (this frequency will disrupt the University's wireless network). To make long-distance phone calls, you can use a prepaid calling card or your own long distance plan if you purchased the "Opt-in Phone Service." Additional information regarding phone service can be found here.

Cable TV
Standard cable TV is provided in all residence hall rooms and available to stream online through XFINITY. For more information, as well as a full channel listing and options to upgrade channel packages, please click here. 

Mail and Shipping Information

Mail is delivered to the Hall Monday through Saturday. Packages delivered by UPS, FedEx, Amazon, and DHL will be delivered directly to a resident's room. Packages delivered by USPS will be delivered to the Hall’s mail room where they can be collected.

When mailing letters or packages, use the following address format:

Name
University of Notre Dame
(Room Number) St. Edward's Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-5623



HALL LEADERSHIP
Rev. Ralph Haag, C.S.C.
Rev. Ralph Haag, C.S.C.

Hometown: Omaha, NE
Major: God
Position: Rector
Favorite President: Ronald Reagan
Fr. Kevin Sandberg
Fr. Kevin Sandberg, C.S.C.

Hometown: Palm Beach Gardens, FL
Major: Economics
Position: Priest In-Residence
Favorite President:
Matteo Taraborrelli
Mr. Paul Cuccinelli

Hometown: Rutherford, New Jersey
Major: Law
Position: Third Floor Assistant Rector
Favorite President: FDR
Macio “Mace” Sexton, Jr.
Mr. Macio “Mace” Sexton, Jr.

Hometown: Hamilton, New Jersey
Major/Area of Study: Law
Position: Second Floor Assistant Rector
Favorite President: Barack Obama
David Hale
Isaiah Alvendia

Hometown: Agat, Guam
Major: Computer Science
Position: First Floor Resident Assistant
Favorite President: Abraham Lincoln
Patrick Campbell
Steven Crabtree

Hometown: Medfield, Massachusetts
Major: Economics
Position: Second Floor Resident Assistant
Favorite President: George Washington
Jack Ramsey
Robert Cline

Hometown: Murrieta, CA
Major: ACMS and Financial Economics
Position: Third Floor Resident Assistant
Favorite President: John F Kennedy
Drew McClimon
Anthony Kafel

Hometown: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Major: Finance and Political Science
Position: Fourth Floor Main Resident Assistant
Favorite President: Teddy Roosevelt
Josh Williams
Michael Jekot

Hometown: Des Plaines, Illinois
Major: Finance & ACMS
Position: Economics & Global Affairs
Favorite President: Abraham Lincoln
Aidan Tompkins
Dane Storch

Hometown: Kaiserslautern, Germany
Major: Business Analytics & ACMS
Position: Hall President
Favorite President: Abraham Lincoln
John Digenan
Louis Rauch

Hometown: Lake Forest, Illinois
Major: Finance
Position: Hall Vice President
Favorite President: John F. Kennedy
John Digenan
Andrew Kolodychak

Hometown: Erie, Pennsylvania
Major: Biology/Accounting
Position: Hall Vice President
Favorite President: Abraham Lincoln
Michael Jeckot
Brendan Avey

Hometown: Springfield, Virginia
Major: Business Analytics and Economics
Position: Welcome Week Captain
Favorite President: Ronald Reagan
Jack Kalicak
Ben Somerville

Hometown: Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands
Major: Mechanical Engineering
Position: Welcome Week Captain
Favorite President: Queen Elizabeth II
​Daniel Jung
Thomas Kelly

Hometown: New York City, New York
Major: ​Accounting
Position: Welcome Week Assistant Captain
Favorite President: Ronald Reagan
Ben Somerville 
Rafael Souza

Hometown: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Major: Finance
Position: Welcome Week Assistant Captain
Favorite President: Ronald Reagan


Tuesday, March 19, 2024
Bog time...

bogging it up

... is always a fun time. Taking advantage of the lull in the action, a visit was made with Fr. Terry Ehrman, CSC, theologian and botanist, to a nearby bog. Located across the border in Michigan,  Mud Lake Bog was the place to visit. Now, remember... this was not a lake but rather a bog. A bog is not a lake but rather a basin where water collects and never escapes. There may be some open water but not necessarily. Still, there are other signs that you're at a bog not a lake, namely the fauna, especially the pitcher plant Saracenic pururea. Yes, it a carnivorous plant. Also, spotted along the path was a small slug. Careful... stay away from those pitcher plants.  Not only was the bog was full of life but also silence. On taking in the sights of the bog, Fr. Ralph shared, "Mexico? Punt Cana? No. I am having the time of my life right here in Michigan's beautiful southwest!



Monday, March 18, 2024
They gave it...

Lee at the line

... their all! Sadly, their best just wasn't good enough to win the game. Yes, Steds went down against Duncan in the RecSports B League semifinals. Steds started off fast, commanding a ten point lead thanks to power forward John Cook, lighting fast Tommy Kelly, and "sharp dunker" Jake Laufenberg. But it seemed as if the gas tank of the Steds basketball engine hit empty out after half time as a scoring drought set in, allowing Duncan to not only equalize but also go ahead by ten! And by the time the team found their game again, it was too late... and not even "the enforcer," Jack Szatkowski, could help. Sadly, it was lights out for team Jay and the Juice. On the game, Fr. Ralph, watching from the sidelines, shared, "Of course, we're sad for the boys. The breaks didn't go their way, but that's life. Humbled now they are, but next year... next year... this team is going all the way!"

To hear this week's special installment of In the Red Room, The People's Choice Awards, on:


Sunday, March 17, 2024
Your Sunday picture...

The day- and the party- are over
... from Notre Dame. As the sun sets over Lake Michigan, so does it over Spring Break. Yes, the sun sets on all the fun and frivolity, late mornings and even later evenings, laughs, high jinx and much more. But what a break it was! Enjoy the view, and enjoy your Sunday wherever you may be.

For Spring Break, the Gentleman's Monthly will be posted every other day and In the Red Room will return next week with more great stories!





Best of...
... the Gentlemen's Monthly. With everyone on Spring Break, we're posting every other day, and so, TEN years ago, here was today's posting. Again, I rather enjoyed it, and maybe you will too... again. Enjoy this blast from the distance past.


Spring Breaking.

Sielski catching a few flakes after a lazy morning.

It's Spring Break, and the Gentlemen have dispersed to the four winds in search of rest and relaxation. Of Spring Break, Neil Sielski, Sted's Junior and native Buffalolian, said, "It's nice to still be able to soak up the sun without all the commotion of the popular spring break locations. Gotta go apply more SPF -50!"

For Spring Break, the Gentleman's Monthly will be posted every other day and In the Red Room will return next week with more great stories!
